
                        =>  - Language Barrier , Impromptu Speech - IT Policies Briefing



Effective briefing skills require the ability to handle face to 
face meetings and briefings with confidence even when working in an increasingly online world. 
A briefing is designed to provide information quickly and effectively about an issue.
 It is often used to influence decisions or offer solutions.
But in reality, of the thousands of briefings given each day, 
only a few of them will be on target providing succinct, 
relevant information.Learning superior briefing skills not
 only benefits organizations but also helps personal development
 and career enhancement.Unlike a speech, which is most often planned 
down to the final word, a successful briefing is most often delivered extemporaneously.
Extemporaneously is different from impromptu, which means the briefing 
is done without prior preparation or notes. Unless you’re really skillful 
at speaking off the cuff, impromptu probably is not a good approach to presenting
 a briefing, which needs to be accurate, concise and clear. 
While you don’t want to memorize a briefing, you do want to thoroughly prepare.
 You should not only prepare the content, but also practice body language and
 the oral pacing of the briefing. Normally it’s best to start by presenting an 
overall big-picture statement of the information about to be presented. 
Then reference the key points from a briefing outline organized chronologically 
using topical organization or cause-and-effect format. 
Writing out and developing an outline of what is essential and what needs to 
 be covered forces a presenter to process internally and to make important clarifications.
 Drafting key points and thoughts allow the “briefing” to focus on important elements.
Want to learn more? Tonex offers Briefing Skills and Techniques, a 3-day course that
 enables participants to conduct effective briefings and presentations.
 Participants learn how to plan, prepare, organize and deliver an effective 
briefing successfully. Participants also learn how to construct and present 
briefings and how to handle questions from the audience.
Additionally, Tonex offers over five dozen other courses in Business Skills. 
Training covers everything from business writing and briefing skills to SOW Writing 
and Risk Management. Here are just a few of our courses in Business Skills: 